	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/sports/6-unforgettable-moments-that-made-us-fall-in-love-with-virat-kohli-274844.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
6 Unforgettable Moments That Made Us Fall In Love With Virat Kohli
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
PARTNER

Virat Kohli's name commands respect. From a young boy who captained the Indian Under-19 team to victory in 2008 to becoming the captain of the Indian Cricket Team, Virat Kohli has definitely come a long way. The long road to success wasn’t an easy one but Virat kept his calm and won millions of hearts along the way. Close to a decade in the game, the swift cricketer has rubbed shoulders with some of the best names in the field of cricket. Having played under the guidance of Sachin Tendulkar and the captaincy of MS Dhoni, Virat has had many remarkable moments that we’ll cherish for life. From incredible moments on-field to some remarkable show of chivalry off-the-field, Virat has given us numerous moments to be proud of. Celebrating Virat’s mass appeal and achievement, here are 6 unforgettable moments that will forever stay with his fans.

1. His first ODI century

Indiatimes

Bagging his first ODI century wasn’t an easy task for Virat. Sixteen months into ODIs, Virat still had to prove his mettle. It was in December 2009 that Virat lead India to victory with his first ODI century in a match against Sri Lanka at Eden Gardens.

2. His remarkable century at the World Cup against Pakistan in 2015

Indiatimes

Having lost to Pakistan two years prior to the World Cup on home ground, Virat had a lot to prove that day and he ascertained that the victory against Pakistan was a remarkable one. As India chose to bat first, Virat made sure to end the innings with a higher target. He scored a century off 119 balls and held the fort to ensure India’s victory once again!

3. When he defended Anushka Sharma against trolls

BCCL

The on-again-off-again relationship between Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma has always made headlines, but their personal relationship led to several troll attacks on Anushka when Virat lost his winning streak in a few matches. For every match that Anushka attended and Virat gave an average performance, his lady love was dragged in the conversation by trolls calling her bad luck. When things got out of hand, Virat stepped in and shut all the trolls. His public stance and support for Anushka won him a million hearts.

4. When Virat chose to bat it out to honour his late father

MensXP

The death of a loved one can shake the strongest of souls, but only a few come out of this emotional turmoil stronger than ever and one such man is Virat Kohli. An 18-year-old Virat Kohli was playing against Karnataka when the news of his father’s death reached him. Even as he broke down in tears upon hearing the news, Virat was on the pavilion the very next day, batting as a tribute to his father who inspired him to play cricket.

5. When Virat blew a kiss to Anushka at the 2014 Hyderabad ODI after completing half a century

Rediff

Are they dating or are they not? Rumours regarding Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma were rife in 2014. While Anushka chose not to comment on them, one romantic gesture by Virat Kohli put a rest to all the speculations. At the 2014 Hyderabad ODI where India played against Sri Lanka, Virat showcased a brilliant performance. Not only did he score half a century but he also became the fastest batsman to score 6000 runs in ODIs. As the crowd in the stadium roared with applause, Virat took off his helmet and blew a kiss to his lady love Anushka, who gave him a standing ovation.

6. His record-breaking performance in IPL 2016

BCCL

Playing for the Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Indian Premier League, Virat Kohli set a new record by amassing 973 in 16 matches. He shattered the former record of scoring 733 runs in one season that was held by Chris Gayle.

Virat has always been a man of honour, a dedicated and passionate player and loyal to the people he loves. Unfortunately, as another journey in his cricketing career commences with IPL, the man of the hour, Virat Kohli will have to sit out a few matches this IPL season due to an injury. He truly will be missed by his fans. In an attempt to honour his undying dedication to the game, Tissot captured the emotions that define the man Virat Kohli.
