	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/sports/7-facts-that-reveal-the-unseen-side-of-pele-the-legendary-footballer-331087.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
7 Facts That Reveal The Unseen Side Of Pelé - The Legendary Footballer
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
PARTNER

Edson Arantes do Nascimento a.k.a Pelé is regarded as the greatest footballer of all times that the world has ever seen. The legend was born on 23rd October 1940 into a humble home back in Brazil, little did his parents know that their son who was named after Thomas Edison would indeed light up the world with his outstanding sports career. According to the International Federation of Football History & Statistics (IFFHS), Pelé is the most successful league goal-scorer in the world, scoring 1281 goals in 1363 games, which included unofficial friendlies and tour games. The world has seen his successful career, but not many know the other side of Pelé, the unseen side which makes him the man he is. Here are some facts about his life that will reveal the unseen story of this legendary footballer.

1. He started with his first football team 'The Shoeless Ones' with the most humble beginnings.

blackwomenofbrazil

Pelé was born into a poor family at the ‘favelas’, and as a young boy, he helped in financially contributing to his family by cleaning shoes at the local train station. It was during those days when he discovered his love for the game. His first football team was formed with a bunch of friends from his neighbourhood, and they called themselves ‘the shoeless ones’. They couldn’t even afford to buy a football, so they used to play with grapefruits and socks stuffed with paper.

2. Pelé was just a nickname that his classmate gave him in school.

Pinterest

As we mentioned, his real name is Edson Arantes do Nascimento, and his family had given him the nick-name 'Dico'. It was in school that he wasn’t able to pronounce the name of the local Vasco da Gama goalkeeper Bile as Pile. Hence, a classmate of his gave him the nickname Pelé (that guy even got punched by Pelé for that). But we all know, it’s that very name which went on create history.

3. Pelé has helped raise millions of pounds for charitable causes and has been an ambassador for change.

damngeeky

Being a world-renown icon & influencer, he has worked as a UNICEF Goodwill ambassador and as a United Nations ambassador, working to protect the environment and fight corruption in Brazil. He was even a FIFA Ambassador against racism. Apart from these, he has raised a large amount of money for various charitable causes including Great Ormond Street and Harlem Street Soccer.

4. Pelé has an instinct for acting too, apart from his 'ginga' for football.

Lorimar

He starred in Escape to Victory, a World War II drama which is about a team of prisoners of war who play their Nazi captors in a football match. He starred as the team's star attacker, Corporal Luis Fernandez, who hailed from Trinidad and Tobago.

5. Pelé served as the Minister of Sport in Brazil in 1995 until 1998.

Pinterest

Of course, in a country which declared him as a National Treasure back in 1961, to prevent him from being transferred to foreign clubs, he remains a valuable asset even post-retirement for sure. So, he served to be on the forefront of sports politics for 3 years, promoting sports and healthy living. He later stepped down to prepare for his new role as a television commentator during the World Cup.

6. He was awarded an honorary British Knighthood in 1997 for his exemplary contributions.

panamericanworld

Pelé received the honour in his capacity as a Brazilian government minister, and for being the outstanding player of three World Cup-winning Brazil teams and scoring over one thousand goals in his professional career. Thereby, he was made an honorary knight in the build-up to the World Cup in 1998. He is allowed to use the letters 'KBE' after his name.

7. His inspiration for the youth moves beyond just football.

thestar

When asked about being a role-model, Pelé says, “Every kid around the world who plays soccer wants to be Pelé. I have a great responsibility to show them not just how to be a soccer player, but how to be a man." Profound, isn’t it?

Definitely, the man he is today is much more beyond the football legend we have always known of. And only the unseen tidbits of his life’s journey can unravel his real story. The best way to know that is by watching his biographical drama, Pelé: Birth Of A Legend. Starring Kevin de Paula, the story focuses on Pelé’s journey from a small slum of Brazil to become an international football icon.

Imagine Entertainment

If you are wondering where to watch it, the India premiere of Pelé: Birth of a Legend is taking place on 8th October 2017 exclusively on ZEE Entertainment‘s premium HD English movie channel &Privé HD. Staying in sync with their philosophy ‘Feel The Other Side’, their movie library is dedicated to viewers who want to experience the emotions and subtle nuances of a film. So don’t wait further, and set your reminders to watch this movie and watch the unseen side of legendary Pelé’s life story.
