	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/world/7-reasons-why-humanity-is-dying-everyday-in-syria-and-the-world-is-just-a-silent-spectator-340804.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
7 Reasons Why Humanity Is Dying Everyday In Syria, And The World Is Just A Silent Spectator.
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
The continued indiscriminate bombing raids on civilians in Syria has proved that the world is facing a humanitarian crisis like never before. The Syrian civil war of Assad's forces and the rebels has trapped thousands of Syrian civilians in between, and it is killing, injuring, maiming innocent men, women and children alike.

Here are some instances that prove that humanity is dying a slow death amidst the civil war in Syria. With lakhs of people are trapped in Syria’s war-torn areas, they have little to no access to food, medicine or sanitary supplies.

1 Mass Executions

There were reports last year of mass executions inside Syria's prison complex that would remind one of the holocaust. The United States accused Syria of mass executions and burning of bodies in a crematorium built inside a prison complex. Reporters were given satellite pictures of the prison facility with additional structure said to be a newly built crematorium, to back the claims of mass executions of up to 50 people a day. an Amnesty International report that between 5,000 and 11,000 had died between 2011 and 2015 in the prison.

reuters

2. Children scarred for life

With bombs stealing away their innocence Syrian children, as young as six, have been photographed in Turkey as part of a project to show the horrors they face. Children as young as 5 year olds have been affected by the brutal bombings and have body parts full of burn scars and some are even handicapped for life.

6 year old fatema, image / anadolu

3. Landmines in homes

The Islamic State group was ousted from its de facto Syrian capital Raqa in October, but it left mines scattered across the ravaged city. However, the residents who are desperate to return home, are being maimed and killed by insidiously hidden and unexploded landmines. Under piles of rubble, behind old refrigerator doors, in blown-out buildings, IS has made sure that death marks its presence everywhere.

afp

4. Flesh trade

One may think that the war and violence are the main problems, but the horror does not end just there, but also extends to women and children. A shocking truth has come out with a report that suggests women in the conflict-torn Syria have been sexually exploited by workers delivering aid on behalf of the UN and international charities. Some aid workers informed BBC that the exploitation is so widespread that some women refuse to visit distribution centres because “people would assume they had offered their bodies for the aid they brought home”.

reuters

5. 500 deaths within just 7-days

In a week of bombardment, death toll recently rose to 500 within only 7 days in a Syrian bombing campaign in the rebel-held suburbs of Damascus known as eastern Ghouta. Seeing the sheer devastation within a week, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres "immediately" implemented the Security Council's demand for a 30-day ceasefire in Syria. The council, along with backing from Russia, has voted unanimously to demand the truce without any delays.

Don't Miss 65.2 K SHARES 9.6 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.4 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES

reuters

6. Surviving on trash

Syrians that have been captured in Eastern Ghouta are suffering from acute shortage of food. Although the land in parts of Syria is fertile and agricultural, children are starving to the point of death. To survive, they are consuming expired food, animal fodder and refuse, spending days without eating, begging and engaging in high-risk activities to get food. The people are eating trash, fainting from hunger and forcing their children to eat on alternate days, said a report by the UN World Food Programme.

afp

7. Chemical warfare and starvation

Assad’s forces have destroyed hospitals, markets, mosques, and even schools. This has made it impossible for civilians to eat regular meals, receive medical attention, or pray where they want. According to a report by Vox, he regime has been leading a ‘siege, starve, and surrender’ campaign for years. If starving children was not enough they have also introduced chemical warfare, fatally citizens in a country with little medical attention.

afp

We confirm that 16 patients, including 6 children & 4 women, suffering from symptoms indicative to exposure to chemical compounds were treated at a SAMS-supported hospital in #EastGhouta. This attack marks the 197th use of chemical weapons in #Syria since 2011 & the 7th in 2018. pic.twitter.com/xpcOhuAvFS — SAMS (@sams_usa) February 25, 2018
