	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/weird/in-order-to-avoid-excess-baggage-fee-this-dude-wore-eight-pairs-of-pants-and-ten-shirts-337799.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
In Order To Avoid Excess Baggage Fee, This Dude Wore Eight Pairs Of Pants And Ten Shirts
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
In Order To Avoid Excess Baggage Fee, This Dude Wore Eight Pairs Of Pants And Ten Shirts

In Order To Avoid Excess Baggage Fee, This Dude Wore Eight Pairs Of Pants And Ten Shirts

That scene from F.R.I.E.N.D.S where Joey wears all of Chandler's clothes to serve revenge on a platter is damn too witty. But from this day on, it will be relatable too. Not sure how many of you have actually pulled that stunt, but guys if you are making a list, count Ryan Carney Williams in.

JoeyFans

Ryan was just another poor soul who wanted to avoid the excess baggage charges on his flight from Iceland to England. Therefore, he wore a little too much extra clothing that couldn't fit in the limit.

Sadly, this stunt got him arrested.

Ryan was denied boarding pass from British Airways after the authority just did not accept him wearing all those clothes. Ryan has uploaded a couple of videos on his Twitter handle sharing how the airline behaved with him. However, the airline has a different story to tell.

The authorities representing the British Airways claim that Ryan was rude which is why they had to turn him away. Ryan later revealed that the airline arrested him, sprayed with mace and held him on the ground when he refused to leave.

@British_Airways hi being held at Iceland Keflavik airport because I had no baggage put all the clothes on and they still won't let me on. Racial profiling? Or..... pic.twitter.com/NKgpe1cPFP — Ryan Hawaii (@RYAN_HAWAII) January 10, 2018

Hapless and alone, Ryan left the airport and returned the next day for another flight that he booked. But yet again he was refused an entry based on what happened a day before. He was stuck at the airport with no money and his luggage already flown to England without him.

And AGAIN! Refused from 2 flights in 2 days for no valid reason :) @easyJet @British_Airways thanks guys wonderful service pic.twitter.com/Ivoc0WZvXl — Ryan Hawaii (@RYAN_HAWAII) January 11, 2018

The money of the flight was eventually returned, but all of this caused him a lot of mental stress.

Spoke to @easyjet via dm and this was there response, can't believe this is real life right now... pic.twitter.com/h8EqkEwTpH — Ryan Hawaii (@RYAN_HAWAII) January 13, 2018

Don't Miss 1.1 K SHARES 25 K SHARES 65.2 K SHARES 9.6 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.4 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES

Not sure if we can comment on whether Ryan was breaching the code of security or whether the airport security was rude to him. However, it would have been a lot better had either side come up with a germane solution.
