	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/sports/ishant-sharma-s-concerned-comment-on-his-injured-wife-s-insta-pic-shows-he-s-a-doting-husband-337994.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Ishant Sharma's Concerned Comment On His Injured Wife's Insta Pic Shows He's A Doting Husband
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
Indian cricket team is in South Africa at the moment for the Freedom Trophy. Even though the things aren’t going too well for the team on the cricket front, they are still making a lot of noise on the social media. From Virat Kohli’s stump mic outburst to the team playing the test matches without their vice captain, a lot of buzz around their tour is keeping cricket fans amused.

twitter

During one of the matches, Virat Kohli won us over with a super-sweet gesture. After hitting 150 runs, the Indian skipper took out his ring, which btw he wears around his neck, and kissed it as a symbol of love for his wife Anushka Sharma.

He’s not the only doting husband in the team. Enter Fast bowler Ishant Sharma, who showed his overbearing side towards wifey Pratima Singh.

CNMsports

Singh who is a professional Basketball Player, recently posted a picture of herself on Instagram. In this pic, she expressed her triumphant win with an injury to match. She captioned the picture as,

“Thats the sign of an athlete going really hard on the court #winnersattitude #fighter #seniornational2018.”

While her fans and followers were pouring in congratulatory messages and good wishes, a concerned Ishant Sharma couldn’t help but chide her with a sweet comment. He wrote,

“Winner dekh kar khelo!! Kyu South Africa mai tension de rahi ho? (Winner, take care while playing!! Why are you making me anxious in South Africa?)”

Instagram

And what followed next was an adorable banter between the couple.

Instagram

Don't Miss 65.3 K SHARES 9.6 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.7 K SHARES 7.6 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES

They tied the knot on December 10th last year.
