	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/meet-princess-amrit-kaur-india-s-first-health-minister-who-built-aiims-341005.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Meet Princess Amrit Kaur, India's First Health Minister Who Built AIIMS
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
For years, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, popularly known as AIIMS has been serving the rich, the poor, the haves and the haven’t of this country and despite the rise of several medical institutions, AIIMS stands strong in a league that is unmatched.

But do you know about the woman who gifted India with an institution that has been serving us beyond its capacity for the last sixty years.

PTI

Here is the story of Princess Amrit Kaur, the first female health minister of the country who laid the foundation of AIIMS in 1965. She was not only the first female health minister of the nation, but the first Asian women to head the governing of the World Health Organisation.

She lived as the champion of women rights throughout her life. “A Princess in her nation’s service, she has gone among the poor and the weak, the mothers and the children, the sick and the starving.” – A citation by Princeton University honouring Amrit Kaur (1956) speaks volumes about her work.

Let’s know more about the great woman who contributed to our well-being massively.

Birth in India and education in England

Amrit Kaur, who is known as Princess because she was born to Raja Harnam Singh, the younger brother of the prince of Kapurthala in a Jat Sikh family on February 2, 1889. Kaur grew up in Lucknow. It was from here that her father managed the vast Awadh estates of the royal family.

PTI/pibindia

Being only girl child among seven children, Kaur was pampered and given extra attention. She received her initial education at Sherborne School of Girls in Dorset, England. Good in academics, the avid sports enthusiast, the Indian princess was also the captain of the school’s hockey, lacrosse and cricket team.

After her schooling, Amrit Kaur reached Oxford to complete education.

Returned to India and saw freedom struggle getting momentum

The princess met 'Father Of The Nation' Mahatma Gandhi and Gopal Krishna Gokhale in 1918. The social reformer was also the founder of Servants of India Society, an organisation that worked to serve the underprivileged.

Introduction to the freedom struggle

Influenced by Gokhale and his work for the people, Amrit Kaur joined the nationalist movement and made a smooth transition into a social activist and freedom fighter. She said, “The flames of my passionate desire to see India free from foreign domination were fanned by him.”

Through Gokhale, Amrit Kaur learnt about Gandhi and his work. She also wrote to him in hope to get to work with him at his ashram. But she couldn’t join him as her parents were not well at that point in time.

Don't Miss 373 SHARES 134 SHARES 65.2 K SHARES 8.9 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.4 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES

All India Women’s Conference founded

In 1926, Amrit Kaur founded All India Women’s Conference to fight for the women rights. It was first of its kind of organisation which would fight for the women and their rights. The group focused on a wide range of political and social issues, such as the abolition of purdah, child marriage and the Devadasi system.

Guard of Honour for Kaur at the All-India (prajnyaarchives)

In fact, it was her resolute and relentless campaigning that forced the government to increase the marriageable age of girls to 14 and then to 18.

Joined Mahatma Gandhi

Amrit Kaur joined Mahatma Gandhi after her parents died in 1930. She left her palace to dive deep into the struggle for freedom. She joined Mahatma in civil disobedience movement led by Mahatma himself in the Dandi March to protest against the salt tax.

Amrit Kaur with Gandhi in Shimla, 1945 (Press Information Bureau)

Impressed by her dedication, in October 1936, Gandhi wrote to her, saying, “I am now in search of a woman who would realise her mission. Are you that woman, will you be one?”

Amrit remained at the post until PM Nehru offered her portfolio of health in his first government.

Supported Uniform Civil Code

As the ardent supporter of women rights, she always remained at tenterhooks with big leaders like Gandhi and Nehru about women rights. Kaur also served as the chairperson of All India Women’s Education Fund Association. In 1945, she also served as India’s official delegate to UNESCO conferences in London.

navrangindia

She was elected to the constituent Assembly from the United Provinces and she was one of the few female members who supported a uniform civil code.

In a letter to BN Rau (dater march 31, 1947), She made the request to remove discrepancies against females such as polygamy, the unequal law of inheritance and dedication of girls to the temples.

Part of the first cabinet

After India got freedom , Amrit Kaur was given the department of health and she not only became the first woman in Indian cabinet but also first health minister of the country.

AFP

After India finally got its hard-won independence in 1947, Kaur became the first woman to hold a cabinet position in India. As the country’s first health minister, she set up the Tuberculosis Association of India, the Indian Council of Child Wel¬fare, the Central Leprosy and Research Institute and the Rajkumari Amrit Kaur College of Nursing.

Envisioned AIIMS

Amrit Kaur had done many works, but she was best known for her vision to establish a health facility for the people which got shape in form of AIIMS.

Photo Division. The government of India

In 1950, Amrit Kaur was elected president of the World Health Assembly which governs WHO and she was the first woman and first Asian to hold the seat. Seven years after the diligent work with west, she secured aid from US, New Zealand, Australia, Sweden, and West Germany establish AIIMS.

Furthermore, she donated her ancestral mansion in Shimla (called Manorville) to AIIMS as a holiday retreat and a rest home for its nurses!

Nurtured AIIMS like her own baby

Amrit Kaur not only helped in bringing back life to AIIMS but nurtured it like her own creation. Kaur ensured that AIIMS remain autonomous and serve as the nucleus of India’s health care, surgical care and education in medical science.

Interestingly, only a few know that Kaur was also instrumental in setting up the National Institute of Sports in Patiala.

It was her efforts that on the 150th celebrations, the USA’s Massachusetts General Hospital placed AIIMS on world’s most distinguished hospital in 1961.

The princess of Kapurthala who gave India so much left this world at 75 on 6 February 1964.
