	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/supreme-court-upholds-passive-euthanasia-diu-becomes-solar-power-surplus-and-other-top-news-341156.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Supreme Court Upholds Passive Euthanasia, Diu Becomes Solar Power Surplus And Other Top News
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
In a landmark judgement, the Supreme Court has ruled that human beings have the right to die with dignity and allowed passive euthanasia for terminally ill people, under strict guidelines.

Passive euthanasia is a condition where there is withdrawal of medical treatment with the deliberate intention to hasten the death of a terminally-ill patient. Read more

Union Territory Of Diu Produces All Electricity It Needs Using Solar Power, Is Now Power Surplus

The harnessing of solar energy has made Diu the country’s first energy surplus Union territory and a model for an effective way for people to harness this renewable energy source.

In just three years, Diu has made rapid progress in solar power generation. The Union territory has an area of just 42 square kilometres. Despite scarcity of land, solar power plants have been installed over more than 50 acres. Read more

23-Year-Old Dies After Being Shot By Minor Cousin While Taking Selfies With A Gun

A 23-year-old from Delhi was shot dead by his minor cousin while taking selfies with a licensed pistol at their home. The incident took place in south east Delhi’s Sarita Vihar area Thursday evening.

Legal action is being taken against the 17-year-old boy. Police informed they may take action against the boy’s father as well for giving a pistol to his minor son. Read more

CBI Moves Supreme Court Challenging Acquittal Of Talwars In Aarushi Murder Case

The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed an appeal against the Allahabad High Court ruling which acquitted Rajesh Talwar and his wife Nupur in the murder of their daughter Aarushi and domestic help Hemraj.

BCCL

Don't Miss 1 K SHARES 65.2 K SHARES 9.6 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.4 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES

The CBI's appeal challenging the verdict comes nearly six months after the couple were let off in the case by the HC citing insufficient evidence against them. Read more

In Gujarat, All The Girls Born On March 8 Will Be Called 'Little Angels"

Chief Minister of Gujarat Vijay Rupani announced on Thursday that girls born on March 8 will be called as "nanhi pari" by the government.

This move comes after a Sample Registration System report revealed that the sex ratio in Gujarat is 848 per 1000 men in 2016. Read more

Some Respite To The Common Man, Court Says Traffic Should Not Be Stopped For VIP Movement

The Madras High Court has said the road traffic need not be halted for dignitaries, including the state governor, the chief minister and chief justice, as it suggested that any such stoppage for facilitating the movement of their vehicles should not be more than 5 or 10 minutes.

First Bench, comprising Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice Abdul Quddhose, also said exceptions may only be made in the case of visits of high-level dignitaries such as the president and the prime minister, who occasionally visit and whose visits were intimated and publicised in advance. Read more
