	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/weird/these-two-malaysian-tourists-just-paid-rs-500-to-spend-two-days-in-a-jail-in-telangana-338631.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
These Two Malaysian Tourists Just Paid Rs 500 To Spend Two Days In A Jail In Telangana
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
On most days, we roll out of bed, drag ourselves to work and then as soon as we're done for the day, we run like A-class ninjas back home to our warm comfy beds again. That's life, on most days. But then, there are some days when we feel like Instagram heroes and free beings roaming the face of this planet for adventure, aka - vacations! We want to para-glide and bungee jump and dive all the way down to the seabed - anything to forget all about our mundane lives. But not these guys. These guys did something we would NEVER put on our itinerary. In fact, we'd put it on our anti-itinerary aka on the list of things not to do!

India Today

If you saw Ng Inn Wo and his friend Ong Boon Tek around your city with a tourist guide, you might not even look at them again. But now you will. The dentist and the restaurant owner respectively flew all the way from Kuala Lumpur to Hyderabad to get jailed. No, don't laugh - this is not a joke and they're not crazy.

These guys spent a weekend at the Heritage Jail Museum in Telangana. The Telangana Prison Department runs the unique jail tourism programme called "Feel The Jail" where anyone can spend 24 hours inside the Sangareddy prison. As per the PWD Records, this jail is more than 220 years old and was constructed in the year 1796 A.D, during the Prime Ministership of Salar Jung I.

AFP

Anyhow, they seemed to enjoy the stay. After all the formalities were done, they were given their jail clothes and shown to their cell. During their 48-hour stay, they did some gardening, cleaning and other activities assigned to prisoners. They even enjoyed Indian meals cooked by their fellow prisoners (and liked them!). To be honest, they have one hell of a story to tell their buddies back home. Seriously, how often do you take a vacation and make it to the newspapers of another country?

If you're rethinking your vacation itinerary and are tempted to try out this slightly-bizarre, borderline-crazy but unique experience, give the good folks at Telangana Tourism a call. They'll help you get jail-ready! You have to admit, this idea is quite the front-runner. It's unlike any other tourist destination out there.

Well, Ng Inn Wo and his friend Ong Boon Tek, we sincerely hope you had fun in our jail! We usually try to avoid handcuffs and rooms with bars, but we hope your cell was comfy and nice.

Don't Miss 373 SHARES 1.1 K SHARES 65.2 K SHARES 9.6 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.4 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES
