	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/weird/this-woman-couldn-t-find-herself-a-man-so-she-married-an-18th-century-pirate-ghost-337785.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
This Woman Couldn't Find Herself A Man, So She Married An 18th Century Pirate Ghost
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
People have taken relationships a little too seriously. I mean, it was one thing to tag your single friends on a meme and maybe joke about their lonesome life, but it is a totally different thing to marry the man of your dreams - literally.

45-year-old Amanda Teague is very close to becoming an internet sensation and for all you know, she will become 'The Meme' of the year.

Also read: Bihar Engineer Abducted And Married At Gunpoint, Crying Groom Runs To File Complaint

Metro

Amanda is the superwoman who ditched every man on the planet to marry a ghost- YES! After failing to find a perfect match for herself, the woman found her soulmate in an 18th-century pirate ghost.

Amanda is a mother of 5 kids, but she claims that she's never felt the connection with any man the way she does with this ghost. She calls him Jack and describes him as a black person with jet black hair.

Metro

She also claims that he is a Haitian pirate.

According to her, Jack was sentenced to death for his crimes in the 1700s, but that doesn't stop Amanda from leading a normal life. She goes on dates with Jack, fights, and does everything a normal couple would do.

"We became really close, the more I learnt about him, the more I liked him. One day he said to me ‘We can actually be together you know’ but I had never heard of an intimate relationship between a spirit and a human before." she told Mirror.

Also read: 8 Years After Coming Out Of The Closet, Ricky Martin Announces He Is Now Married To Jwan Yosef!

Metro

On the day of their wedding, Amanda used a skull and crossbones flag to represent Jack and used a special media to have Jack say 'I do'.

Well, this is the wedding of this century. Unless, of course, someone finds a more bizarre soulmate (we highly doubt that, though).

Don't Miss 65.2 K SHARES 9.6 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.4 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES
