	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/while-all-eyes-are-on-syria-300-women-brutally-raped-by-militias-in-central-african-republic-341187.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
While All Eyes Are On Syria, 300 Women Brutally Raped By Militias In Central African Republic
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
While All Eyes Are On Syria, 300 Women Brutally Raped By Militias In Central African Republic

While All Eyes Are On Syria, 300 Women Brutally Raped By Militias In Central African Republic

In the war-afflicted areas across the world, reports are suggesting one common thing - sexual exploitation of women.

The scenario is the same even in Central Africa. Reports suggest that militia fighters attacked, kidnapped and raped a large group of women in an isolated area of Central African Republic in February. Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) gave this information on Thursday.

afp

The charity that provides medical aid to victims treated 10 survivors of the February 17 violence near a village in northwest of the country. The women were unable to seek medical treatment until about two weeks later, with the fear of being attacked once again.

As the rape victims, they were worried they would be stigmatised in their community.

“Some were totally in shock, others paralysed by fear or unable to talk about the incident. Some of the women had open wounds caused by blades,” said Soulemane Amoin, a midwife at the hospital in the town of Bossangoa where the women were treated. “It was terrible to see. It broke my heart.”

afp

The Central African Republic descended into chaos after mainly Muslim Seleka rebels ousted president Francois Bozize in 2013, provoking a spate of killing by Christian militias.

The UN Security Council approved an extra 900 peacekeepers in November to help to protect civilians, despite the deployment of 12000 UN peacekeeping mission.

In its statement, MSF said the women had left their village to fetch water and tend to their fields when the militiamen arrived. Some women fled, but others were grabbed and brought back to the militia’s base where they were repeatedly raped before being let go, it said. It has also treated around 300 victims of rape and sexual assault from around the country each month so far 2018 at its main hospital in the capital, Bangui.

Don't Miss 65.3 K SHARES 9.6 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.7 K SHARES 7.6 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES
