	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.optimalspaces.com/
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
New York Office Space For Rent
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
At Optimal Spaces Inc., we understand how critical finding the ideal new york city commercial space is for a successful business, particularly in New York City. As New York Tenant Brokers, we partner closely with our clients to meet their changing needs as their businesses grow and evolve, demanding more office space, whether it be NYC office space, Educational or industrial, retail, medical or loft. We provide comprehensive information on all the properties we show our clients, including floor plans, exterior photographs, physical and historical detail on both the building and space, and proposed deal terms.

Optimal Spaces Inc., caters to all the new york commercial real estate needs of any tenant. Our New York City market knowledge allows us to provide significant savings for renewing tenants during your new york office lease or manhattan office lease negotiations. We encourage clients to take advantage of the leverage that an outside tenant representative can bring to the table especially when dealing with commerical real estate.

Optimal Spaces Inc., has complete access to all available new york commercial real estate listing services in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Bronx, Staten Island, and Westchester, enabling us to help clients look beyond the problems of the here-and-now and work with you to develop effective long-term real estate solutions. Within Manhattan itself, we have worked in every area from Financial District to Midtown and Chelsea, Downtown and the Harlem and the Upper West Side and Upper East Side to help clients with the search in the commercial real estate arena for building, sales and office space leasing and buying.We are experts in all of our client's real estate needs, including renting, subleasing, acquisition, disposition, expansion and renewals.

With Manhattan office rents at an all time high, it is more important than ever to know your options. The recent layoffs from Wall Street should add back some space, at a time when it is most needed, and temper landlord rent demands.
