	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://m.sfgate.com/news/article/Bay-Area-coffee-shop-won-t-serve-police-for-12741262.php
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Bay Area coffee shop won't serve police for 'safety of customers'
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle Image 1 of / 15 Caption Close

Image 1 of 15 Buy photo A customer arrives at Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. A customer arrives at Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle Buy this photo

Image 2 of 15 Buy photo A large mural is painted above Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. A large mural is painted above Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle Buy this photo

Image 3 of 15 Buy photo A mural memorializes Alex Nieto outside of Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. A mural memorializes Alex Nieto outside of Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle Buy this photo

Image 4 of 15 Buy photo A customer enters Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. A customer enters Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle Buy this photo

Image 5 of 15

Image 6 of 15 Buy photo Customers sit inside Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. Customers sit inside Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle Buy this photo

Image 7 of 15 Buy photo A customer leaves Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. A customer leaves Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle Buy this photo

Image 8 of 15 Buy photo A large mural is painted above Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. A large mural is painted above Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle Buy this photo

Image 9 of 15 Buy photo A mural is painted on a wall outside of Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. A mural is painted on a wall outside of Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, March 9, 2018. Owners of the cafe on Fruitvale Avenue are refusing service to uniformed police officers. Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle Buy this photo

Image 10 of 15

Image 11 of 15 Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland. Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland. Photo: Marco M./Yelp

Image 12 of 15 Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland. Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland. Photo: Rachel Y./Yelp

Image 13 of 15 Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland. Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland. Photo: Rachel Y./Yelp

Image 14 of 15 Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland. Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland. Photo: Kim B./Yelp
