	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
http://www.healthcare-ethics.org/
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Ethics and Advocacy in Healthcare and Medicine
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
Ethical dilemmas in everyday medical practice are a wide subject, deserving much more than just one simple article. But there is also a whole separate area of our consideration, namely ethics in online health advice.

It’s no secret there is a number of health issues which are addressed online by various websites, blogs, courses etc. Some of that advice is truly beneficial and deserves a positive recognition by the professional medical environment.

Within that frames we could name various weight loss advise (excluding so called weight loss pills, which are mostly dangerous to health), helpful advice on quitting smoking, or general fitness advice and motivation.

With today’s high rates of obesity, educating the public about ways to healthy weight loss is something we as medical professionals should encourage and support. The same goes for quitting smoking, reducing alcohol consumption, and all forms of healthy life motivation, like for example healthy diet advice.

Then there is a grey area. Advice and products which seemingly address issues the public wants solved, but those problems not always can be solved. Within this frame we could list products like Grow Taller 4 Idiots as reviewed by many sites, among them: gettall.info.

As the name suggests, the product promises to teach people how to grow taller – something we as doctors and medical professional know is a process that cannot be so easily influenced. Even though the program teaches the people to exercise and consume appropriate doses of vitamins, which in itself is not harmful (when norms are adhered to), the promised result is rather difficult to achieve.

We can see the ethical dilemma here clearly. On one hand the product promises something that cannot be achieved. But on the other hand – it promotes healthy behavior. Should we ban it?

Finally, there is an enormous industry of decidedly “black” products. These are usually connected to humans sexuality and promise to improve mainly the size aspect of masculinity. “Grow longer”, “Get thicker” products.

These are outright scams which address men’s insecurities and promise to solve those issues, but really they cannot work. What is even more alarming is that there is a large number of medical professionals who buy them, falling for the insecurity solution trap!

Luckily these specifics are usually not sold and advertised online. Nowadays virtually the only channel for them is email spam, which is widely ignored.

All of those sources of medical advice online have to contain disclaimers that they do not offer medical advice. Unfortunately, probably not many people turn their attention to those disclaimers and they are usually hidden deep down below on those websites.

As medical professional it is our duty to warn our patients about the risks of depending on online medical advice.
