	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.yahoo.com//news/isis-caliphate-gone-terror-threat-lives-195236489.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
ISIS caliphate is gone, but terror threat lives on
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
With the guns finally silent and the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) expelled from Mosul, Iraq, and Raqqa, Syria — the twin capitals of the group’s self-proclaimed caliphate — President Trump signaled victory in his State of the Union address. “Last year, I pledged that we would work with our allies to extinguish ISIS from the face of the earth,” Trump said on Jan. 30. “One year later, I’m proud to report that the coalition to defeat ISIS has liberated very close to 100 percent of the territory just recently held by these killers in Iraq and Syria.”

Recapturing ISIS-held territory after a campaign of more than three years was certainly an important inflection point in the United States’ post-9/11 wars against Islamist extremist groups, and cause for celebration. According to U.S. military officials, the offensive required some of the toughest urban combat since World War II and led to the deaths of an estimated 70,000-plus ISIS fighters, and 120 of the group’s leaders. The loss of territory roughly the size of Switzerland robs ISIS of its major sources of income and its air of invincibility. The collapse also greatly diminishes the power of ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi’s “Islamist homeland” narrative that drew an unprecedented 40,000-plus foreign fighters to the group’s black flag.

Perhaps most important, the concerns of U.S. counterterrorism officials that tens of thousands of those battle-hardened terrorists might return to their homelands to wreak havoc on a mass scale have not materialized. According to a recent report by Jane’s Terrorism and Insurgency Centre, with ISIS besieged in 2017 there was a global drop in terrorist attacks, with civilian deaths declining by 45 percent last year compared to the average of the previous five years.

“We assumed the foreign fighters that flowed out from the caliphate would roughly equal the numbers that joined ISIS, and we have rethought that analysis,” National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC) director Nicholas Rasmussen told Yahoo News in an exclusive interview in December, shortly before retiring. “We now think most of them will stay and fight and die in the caliphate. That’s good news.”

Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis briefs the media on ISIS at the Pentagon. (Photo: Jacquelyn Martin/AP) More

The U.S. military is already adjusting to the perceived defeat of ISIS in Iraq and Syria. U.S. Central Command recently announced that it is shifting U.S. military forces and resources from the Middle East to Afghanistan to break a military stalemate there with the Taliban Islamist extremist group. In January, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis released a new National Defense Strategy that downgrades the terrorism threat and prioritizes long-term strategic competitions with Russia and China instead. “We will continue to prosecute the campaign against terrorists, but great-power competition — not terrorism — is now the primary focus of U.S. national security,” Mattis said in explaining the change.

As the smoke has cleared and the dust settled over the rubble of Mosul and Raqqa, however, a number of veteran counterterrorism experts both inside and outside the government are experiencing an uneasy sense of déjà vu. They remember a similar inflection point in 2011, when news on the counterterrorism front was equally positive. That year U.S. counterterrorism forces killed both al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden, and Anwar al-Awlaki, the charismatic, American-born imam and master propagandist who led al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). The nascent democratic revolutions of the 2011 Arab Spring offered a hopeful narrative of change that ran counter to bin Laden’s vision of Islamic theocracies imposed by violence and terror. At that time the Obama administration’s troop “surge” in Afghanistan had also reclaimed the initiative from the Taliban, and Iraq had sufficiently stabilized that President Barack Obama decided to withdraw all U.S. troops by the end of the year.
