	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://edition.cnn.com/2018/02/28/entertainment/netflix-hulu-amazon-streaming-march/index.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
What's streaming on Netflix, Amazon and Hulu in March
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
Photos: What's streaming in March Krysten Ritter is back in March for her super heroine turn in Season 2 of Netflix's "Marvel's Jessica Jones." But that's not the only powerful thing streaming that month. Hide Caption 1 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Atomic Blonde": Charlize Theron stars as an undercover MI6 agent during the Cold War who must investigate the murder of a fellow agent and recover a missing list of double agents before it's too late. (HBO Now) Hide Caption 2 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Hart's War": Bruce Willis stars as Colonel William McNamara in this film about a lieutenant and law student captured during World War II asked to defend a black prisoner of war who is falsely accused of murder. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 3 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "A Series of Unfortunate Events" Season 2: Buckle in Lemony Snicket fans because Count Olaf returns with even more treachery. (Netflix) Hide Caption 4 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Stretch Armstrong; The Breakout": This adventure follows Jake Armstrong and his best friends after they are unexpectedly transformed into superheroes. (Netflix) Hide Caption 5 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Alien: Covenant": The second installment in the "Alien" prequel sci-fi franchise tells the story of the crew of a colony ship headed to a remote destination who discover what they think is paradise. (HBO Now) Hide Caption 6 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "My Next Guest Needs No Introduction with David Letterman - Malala Yousafzai": The former late night host turns his microphone on the Pakistani education activist and the youngest person ever to win the Nobel Peace Prize. (Netflix) Hide Caption 7 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Roxanne Roxanne": Chanté Adams and Mahershala Ali star in the story of Lolita "Roxanne Shanté" Gooden, a young Queens, New York teen on her way to becoming a hip-hop legend. (Netflix) Hide Caption 8 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Santa Clarita Diet" Season 2: Drew Barrymore and Timothy Olyphant return to helm the series about a family trying to deal with having a zombie in the house. (Netflix) Hide Caption 9 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Girls Trip": Tiffany Haddish, Regina Hall, Queen Latifah and Jada Pinkett Smith head to the Essence Music Festival in New Orleans for some fun in this romp that became a breakout hit. (HBO Now) Hide Caption 10 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Earth Girls Are Easy": A bikini clad Geena Davis is carried by Jeff Goldblum in this comedy about a Southern California woman who befriends three furry aliens after their ship lands in her swimming pool. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 11 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Power Rangers": Go, go Power Rangers! A group of young people with superpowers come together to try and save the world. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 12 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Sneaky Pete" Season 2: A conman takes on the identity of his former cellmate, Pete, in this crime drama. (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 13 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Bad News Bears": Billy Bob Thornton stars as a curmudgeonly little league coach in this remake of the 1976 original dramedy. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 14 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "The Remix" Season 1: It's all about the Bollywood song remixes in this music competition in which a singer and DJ team compete against others trying to make new sounds out of old hits. (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 15 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Body of Evidence": This film starring Madonna and Willem Dafoe about a lawyer defending a woman accused of killing her older lover with sex was widely panned -- but still has its fans. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 16 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "The Blue Lagoon": Brooke Shield and Christopher Atkins star as a pair of kids who come into adolescence after they are shipwrecked alone on a tropical island. (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 17 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Delicious": Dawn French stars in this British drama series about food, love and infidelity in Cornwall. (Acorn TV) Hide Caption 18 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Regarding Henry": Harrison Ford stars as a ruthless attorney who forges a new life after he is shot while interrupting a robbery. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 19 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "National Lampoon's Dirty Movie": An outrageous producer tries to fulfill his lifelong dream of making a movie about the most offensive, dirtiest jokes ever told. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 20 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "The Beguiled": Jealousy and betrayal are on tap after the unexpected arrival of a wounded Union soldier at a girls school in Virginia during the American Civil War. (HBO Now) Hide Caption 21 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Veni Vidi Vici" Season 1: A Danish film director in decline is forced to get another job in this series. (Hulu) Hide Caption 22 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "March of the Penguins 2: The Next Step": Filmmaker Luc Jacquet returns to the Antarctic to revisit the Emperor Penguins who call the frozen continent home in this sequel to the Academy Award winning "March of the Penguins" documentary. (Hulu) Hide Caption 23 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Fantasia 2000": Great works of classical music get a reinterpretation in this update of the 1940 classic film. (Hulu) Hide Caption 24 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "The Zen Diaries of Garry Shandling": This documentary features interviews with friends and family as well as footage of the famed comic actor died of a heart attack in 2016. (HBO Now) Hide Caption 25 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "1984": Based on the George Orwell classic novel of the same name, this film tells the story of a man fighting for love in a totalitarian future society. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 26 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Who Framed Roger Rabbit": Bob Hoskins shares the screen with animated characters in this comedy about a cartoon-hating detective who is the only hope to proving a cartoon rabbit's innocence after he is accused of murder. (Hulu) Hide Caption 27 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "A View to a Kill": Roger Moore stars as superspy James Bond in this action-packed thriller, involving horse racing, a microchip and a nefarious plot. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 28 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Chicago": Catherine Zeta Jones stars in this big-screen adaptation of the musical in which a pair of murderesses find themselves on death row together, fighting for the fame that will keep them from being executed in 1920s Chicago. (Hulu) Hide Caption 29 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "I'm Gonna Git You Sucka": Keenen Ivory Wayans both starred in and made his directorial debut with this parody of black exploitation films. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 30 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "The Son" Season 1: Pierce Brosnan and Henry Garrett star as Eli McCullough and Pete McCullough in this generational drama, which tells the story of America's rise as a superpower through the struggle of a Texas oil empire. (Hulu) Hide Caption 31 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "The Standup" Season 2: Some of comedy's freshest voices take to the stage in Los Angeles for a series of half hour specials. (Netflix) Hide Caption 32 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Girls Incarcerated" Season 1: This docuseries follows the ups and downs of a group of teen girls who are behind bars. (Netflix) Hide Caption 33 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Cruel Intentions": Reese Witherspoon and Sarah Michelle Gellar star in this now cult-classic film about the machinations of some wealthy high school students. (Netflix) Hide Caption 34 of 36

Photos: What's streaming in March "Casino": Robert De Niro stars as a man who gets more than he bargained for after the mafia convinces him to take over management of a Las Vegas casino in this Martin Scorsese-directed film. (Netflix) Hide Caption 35 of 36
