	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://edition.cnn.com/2016/12/12/football/where-is-the-european-colin-kaepernick/index.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
As American sports figures sound off, their European counterparts stray from politics
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
"I don't think anybody can deny this guy is openly and brazenly racist and misogynistic," he told reporters during a shoot around before a game in Phoenix.

"We have just thrown a good part of our population under the bus, and I have problems with thinking this is where we are as a country."

Van Gundy's outspokenness, echoed by fellow NBA coaches Steve Kerr and Gregg Popovich, is emblematic of a rise in political activism within American sports unseen since the Vietnam War.

Images of Colin Kaepernick kneeling for the national anthem, Carmelo Anthony joining a civil rights march, and LeBron James stumping for Hillary Clinton hardly raise eyebrows anymore.

Curiously, however, their cohorts in Europe have remained largely silent on political issues. This, despite the UK's highly-charged Brexit referendum in June, and a surge in far-right and xenophobic sentiment on the continent.

They don't get involved in politics. They think it's not their job. John Amaechi

"They don't get involved in politics," former NBA player John Amaechi says of his fellow British athletes. "They think it's not their job. They think they will be instantly critiqued -- which they will be -- but it's not the job of athletes to avoid critique."

"That is an anti-risk-taking behavior, which is anti-athletics," Amaechi, now an organizational psychologist in London, tells CNN. "I personally think abdicating your public voice is irresponsible."

Amaechi was the first ex-NBA player to speak openly about his homosexuality when he came out in 2007.

LeBron James is pictured with Hillary Clinton.

'There has to be solidarity'

Although a few retired footballers like David Beckham and Gary Lineker , along with controversial veteran player Joey Barton , opined on the Brexit campaign on social media, it is difficult to find examples of European athletes willing to risk their careers by speaking out against social injustice in the manner of Muhammad Ali, Martina Navratilova , or today's firebrand Kaepernick.

Maguire also cites "passive and covert" symbols of protest including the fascist tattoos of former Lazio player Paulo Di Canio, and the silence of ethnically-Turkish footballer Mesut Ozil during the German national anthem.

Retired English footballer Howard Gayle, who in 1977 became the first black player to play for Liverpool, says that unlike Kaepernick and James, black British athletes are reticent to attract controversy.

"A lot of people don't want to rattle that cage of racism and draw that attention to them, because they feel that it may (prevent) them from earning certain amounts of money," says Gayle, who detailed the hurdles he faced in his autobiography "61 Minutes in Munich: The Story of Liverpool FC's First Black Footballer."

"Black sportsmen traditionally come from poor communities," he explains, "so when (they) get the opportunity to get out of that community, they are reluctant to look at the principled approach of a stance against racism."

Gayle -- who did not sing "God Save the Queen" as an England youth player and says he "never really had that affinity playing for England" -- made his stance public this year when he declined a nomination for a Member of the Order of the British Empire.

The title, traditionally awarded at Buckingham Palace and known as an MBE, was to recognize his community work on social inclusion.

"I am well aware of the history of Africa and my ancestry," he says, referring to Britain's role in the trans-Atlantic slave trade . "To have "A Member of the British Empire" after my name wouldn't sit well with me as a black man."

Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports In 2012 members of the Miami Heat -- led by LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh -- posed in hoodies in solidarity with slain Florida teenager Trayvon Martin. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports African-American athletes have a long history of speaking up in defense of civil rights. In 1967 a group of top athletes from various sports gathered to support Muhammad Ali in rejecting the draft during the Vietnam War. Seated in the front row, from left to right: Bill Russell, Ali, Jim Brown and Lew Alcindor (now Kareem Abdul-Jabbar). Standing behind them are Carl Stokes, Walter Beach, Bobby Mitchell, Sid Williams, Curtis McClinton, Willie Davis, Jim Shorter and John Wooten. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports Tommie Smith (center) and John Carlos (right) of the US launched one of the most famous sporting protests in history on the podium at the 1968 Mexico Olympics with their Black Power salute. Australian sliver medalist Peter Norman (left) also stood in protest, wearing a human rights badge on his track suit. The act harmed his career in Australia. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports NBA star Carmelo Anthony of the New York Knicks marched with protesters in Maryland, demanding better police accountability and racial equality following the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody in April 2015. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports In 2016 Colin Kaepernick ( #7) of the San Francisco 49ers created a storm by refusing to stand for the national anthem before NFL games. He is pictured with teammate Eric Reid (#35) prior to a home game against the Los Angeles Rams on September 12, 2016. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports Other athletes -- including those at the college and high school level -- joined Kaepernick's protest. Megan Rapinoe (#15) of the US Women's National Team knelt before a match against Thailand on September 15, 2016 in Columbus, Ohio. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports Social protest is also something undertaken by fans. Back on December 4, 1935, the German football team give the Nazi salute at White Hart Lane, the London home of Tottenham Hotspur. England fans protested outside the stadium before the match, according to sports sociologist Joseph Maguire. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports In 2009 Inter Milan fans held up posters supporting Mario Balotelli in response to racist abuse that the player received at Juventus. The English translation of the posters is "Better black than Juventus." Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports German footballer Deniz Naki -- shown playing for former club St. Pauli of the Bundesliga -- was banned for 12 matches and fined $5,825 for a Facebook post dedicating his Turkish second division club's victory to Kurdish combatants in southeastern Turkey. Naki's parents are of Kurdish origin, and he has Kurdish-themed tattoos on his arms. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports England cricketer Steve Harrison refused to travel to Zimbabwe in 2004 for a series of matches. Although Harrison boycotted the tour for political reasons against the Zimbabwean regime, the England & Wales Cricket Board did not take any action against him. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports British-Ghanian player Emmanuel Frimpong received a red card in the first match of the 2015 Russian soccer season after making an obscene gesture at Spartak Moscow. He later wrote on social media that he was responding to racial abuse from the stands. "(I) am a human being shouldn't be racially abused for the game that I love," he wrote. "And yet we going to hold a World Cup in this country where African(s) will have to come play football."

Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports AC Milan's former Ghanaian defender Kevin-Prince Boateng picked up the ball, kicked it towards the stands and walked off the pitch during a friendly against Pro Patria in Busto Arsizio on January 3, 2013 because of racists chants from home supporters. "Shame that these things still happen," the 25-year-old German-born Ghanaian player said on his Twitter account. The match was stopped in the 26th minute when he led his team off the pitch. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports Former NBA player John Amaechi, who is now a psychologist in London, says standing for national anthems before sporting events is unnecessary. He added that he would not attend a tournament in Russia if he was an active athlete. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: A timeline of social activism in sports Howard Gayle played for eight English football clubs, and was the first black player to play for Liverpool. Gayle says he tried to educate teammates on acts of passive racism. During his playing days he did not sing the national anthem, and later refused an MBE (Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire) title from Buckingham Palace. Hide Caption 14 of 14

'I'm not just disappointed, I'm furious'

Voices like Gayle's among active athletes on the continent are hard to find, however, even when the stakes are high.

In 2013, Manchester City's star Ivory Coast midfielder Yaya Toure was subject to racist chants from the stands at CSKA Moscow and voiced his disgust after the match.

"I'm not just disappointed, I'm furious," he said, while suggesting that other black athletes would think twice before attending the 2018 World Cup in Russia. "If we aren't confident at the World Cup, coming to Russia, we (won't) come."

Toure, who retired from world football in September, did not respond to CNN's request for comment on this story through his agent.

Other players including Brazilian forward Givanildo Vieira de Sousa, better known as Hulk, Ghanaian Emmanuel Frimpong and former Brazil great Roberto Carlos -- who twice had bananas brandished at him in 2011 -- have complained about facing racial abuse in Russia, while the football watchdog FARE Network documented over 200 cases of racism in Russian football in a 2015 report

Yaya Toure (center) is surrounded by Manchester City teammates during the October, 2013 UEFA Champions League match at CSKA Moscow, where he endured racist chancts from the stands.

"FIFA's position on any form of discrimination is unequivocal: There is no place for racism or for any form of discrimination in football, as clearly described in the FIFA Statutes," it said in a statement.

FIFA has also defended its selection of Russia, while appealing for all players to participate.

"History has shown so far that boycotting sport events or a policy of isolation or confrontation are not the most effective ways to solve problems," it said in a 2014 statement.

"We can achieve positive change in the world, but football cannot be seen as a solution for all issues, particularly those related to world politics."

No poppies for the British

Further talks of a Russian boycott by prominent minority players "would make a very powerful statement," says Maguire, "but it won't happen."

Maguire cites a number of hurdles, including lack of "group solidarity among African players" -- even among those who have earned millions playing in Europe -- because of the enormity and diversity of the continent.

Furthermore, the economic stake of losing out on a precious World Cup qualifying spot for most member countries is too high to risk a FIFA ban for political interference.

FIFA recently opened disciplinary procedures against the English and Scottish football associations for ignoring a ban on players wearing commemorative poppies during a match on Armistice Day. Wales and Northern Ireland also face punishment for the mere display of poppies -- the symbol of remembrance for fallen British soldiers -- during their matches.

The leeway to protest in sports other than soccer -- including the NFL, which does not require its players to stand for the national anthem -- is higher, says Maguire.

In 2004, England cricketer Steve Harmison refused to travel to Zimbabwe for political reasons, and the England & Wales Cricket Board did not take action against him.

'Why does he stand alone on this?'

Gayle says that an "overwhelming call from a senior black professional" would be necessary to garner support for a boycott of Russia 2018. "There has to be solidarity," he says, in order to pressure other athletes to take a stand.

CNN has requested comment from 23 active black footballers who have represented England regarding playing in Russia, though they were not immediately available.

Amaechi, whose father is Nigerian, also has reservations about FIFA hosting its showcase tournament in Russia.

"One of their principles is that sport is a human right," he says. "When they talk about their principle of inclusion of all people regardless of race, sexuality, gender, etc., that means they can't go to a country like Russia."

The responsibility, however, should not land on the players in the first place, he insists.

"Why is it the athletes' job to solve this problem, when there are old men being paid to do just that in football?" asks Amaechi.

"When Yaya Toure says something so reasonable -- that we should have secure places for athletes to play where they won't be abused -- why is it that he stands with a couple of athletes alone on this?"
