	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://edition.cnn.com/2017/12/11/sport/gallery/what-a-shot-sports-1212/index.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Indianapolis safety Matthias Farley tackles Buffalo tight end Charles Clay during a snowy NFL game in Orchard Park, New York, on Sunday, December 10. Hide Caption 1 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Gabriel Benitez punches Jason Knight during their UFC featherweight bout on Saturday, December 9. Benitez won by unanimous decision. Hide Caption 2 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Switzerland's Joos Berry leads a pack of ski-cross racers during a World Cup event in Val Thorens, France, on Thursday, December 7. Hide Caption 3 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Iowa State's Bridget Carleton, left, scrambles for a loose ball with Iowa's Hannah Stewart during a college basketball game on Wednesday, December 6. Hide Caption 4 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Navy kicker Bennett Moehring misses a field goal in the final seconds of the game against Army on Saturday, December 9. Army edged Navy 14-13 for its second straight win in the rivalry. Hide Caption 5 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Vardar goalkeeper Filip Gachevski corrals a dog that ran onto the field during a Europa League match in Skopje, Macedonia, on Thursday, December 7. Hide Caption 6 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Oklahoma quarterback Baker Mayfield holds the Heisman Trophy after winning the award in New York on Saturday, December 9. The senior threw 41 touchdowns this year and ran for five as the Sooners won the Big 12 title and qualified for the College Football Playoff. Hide Caption 7 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Minnesota wide receiver Adam Thielen tries to pull in a pass during an NFL game in Charlotte, North Carolina, on Sunday, December 10. It was initially ruled a touchdown catch, but it was overturned after a replay showed Thielen bobbling the ball as he went out of bounds. Hide Caption 8 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Pernilla Lindberg plays a tee shot during the final round of the Dubai Ladies Classic on Saturday, December 9. Hide Caption 9 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Real Madrid star Cristiano Ronaldo poses with his five Ballon d'Or trophies before a Spanish league match against Sevilla on Saturday, December 9. Ronaldo now shares the record with Barcelona's Lionel Messi. Hide Caption 10 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos French cyclist Pauline Ferrand Prevot celebrates after winning a cyclo-cross race in Overijse, Belgium, on Sunday, December 10. Hide Caption 11 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Toronto captain Michael Bradley hoists the MLS Cup after the soccer team won its first league title on Saturday, December 9. Toronto defeated Seattle 2-0 in what was a rematch of last year's final. Hide Caption 12 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Smoke surrounds CSKA Moscow goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev during a Russian league match against Spartak Moscow on Sunday, December 10. The smoke came from flares that fans had lit. Hide Caption 13 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Japanese snowboarder Hiroaki Kunitake trains before a Big Air competition in Copper Mountain, Colorado, on Friday, December 8. Hide Caption 14 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Giancarlo Stanton adjusts his cap as he is presented as the newest member of the New York Yankees on Monday, December 11. Stanton, the National League MVP who hit 59 home runs this past season, was traded to the Yankees from Miami. The Marlins received second baseman Starlin Castro and two minor-league prospects, Jorge Guzman and Jose Devers. Hide Caption 15 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos A person dressed as "Star Wars" character Kylo Ren attends the coin toss before an Australian league soccer match in Sydney on Saturday, December 9. Hide Caption 16 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Perth's Lucas Walker, bottom, tries to box out Adelaide's Ramone Moore during a basketball game in Perth, Australia, on Friday, December 8. Hide Caption 17 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Arizona defenseman Alex Goligoski checks Boston forward Brad Marchand during an NHL game in Boston on Thursday, December 7. Hide Caption 18 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Soccer player Damian Alvarez is thrown into the air by his teammates after Tigres won the Mexican soccer title on Sunday, December 10. Hide Caption 19 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Australian spinner Nathan Lyon appeals successfully for an LBW decision against England's Alastair Cook on Tuesday, December 5. Australia won the second Test match of the Ashes series by 120 runs, and it has a 2-0 lead in the best-of-five series. Hide Caption 20 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Cameroon's Jacky Baniomo, left, competes against the Netherlands' Yvette Broch during a match at the World Handball Championship on Tuesday, December 5. Hide Caption 21 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Japanese baseball star Shohei Ohtani, right, shakes hands with Los Angeles Angels owner Arte Moreno during a news conference in Anaheim, California, on Saturday, December 9. Ohtani, a pitcher and outfielder, chose to sign with the Angels over several other Major League teams. Hide Caption 22 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Canadian figure skaters Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir perform during the gala exhibition of the Grand Prix event in Nagoya, Japan, on Sunday, December 10. Hide Caption 23 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Anaheim forward Corey Perry, left, fights Ottawa defenseman Dion Phaneuf during an NHL game in Anaheim, California, on Wednesday, December 6. Hide Caption 24 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Jock Paget tumbles from Snow Leopard during the cross-country phase of the Puhinui International Horse Trials, a three-day event in Auckland, New Zealand, on Saturday, December 9. Hide Caption 25 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Carolina quarterback Cam Newton walks through pyrotechnics before an NFL game in Charlotte, North Carolina, on Sunday, December 10. Hide Caption 26 of 28

Photos: What a shot! 28 amazing sports photos Cleveland's Dwyane Wade, left, and Sacramento's Bogdan Bogdanovic eye a loose ball during an NBA game in Cleveland on Wednesday, December 6. Hide Caption 27 of 28
