	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/30-000-farmers-are-marching-towards-mumbai-with-their-demands-here-s-what-they-want-341189.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
30,000 Farmers Are Marching Towards Mumbai With Their Demands, Here's What They Want
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
30,000 Farmers Are Marching Towards Mumbai With Their Demands, Here's What They Want

30,000 Farmers Are Marching Towards Mumbai With Their Demands, Here's What They Want

A sea of farmers carrying red flags and wearing red caps is marching from Nashik to Mumbai, Maharashtra. The despairing farmers aim to reach Mumbai on Sunday, March 11 and encircle the state legislative assembly building the day after to protest the state government’s failure to fulfill its promise and what they call ‘anti-farmer policies’.

The Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, the farmers’ collective of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), has called for the march from Nashik to Mumbai.

The farmers, holding up flags with the sickle and hammer symbol, began the protest from Nashik on March 6 evening and walking the 180 kilometres to Mumbai with night halts every 30 kilometre.

Indian Express

Arrangements for food, toilets, lights etc, have been made. For the tens of thousands of people marching, administration has made arrangements for movable toilets and the farmers usually camp on the banks of rivers where they bathe and freshen up. Lights have also been put up to ensure security and policemen have also been posted.

Farmers’ demands

The protesting farmers say their primary demand is for a waiver of all loans and the implementation of the Swaminathan Committee report, which says farmers should be paid one and a half times the cost of production for what they produce and the MSP's should be fixed keeping this in mind.

Devendra Fadnavis’ Maharasthra government has been under constant pressure by farmers who allege that the CM has failed to honour assurances given to them when it announced the conditional farm loan waiver of Rs 34,000 crore in June last year.

Shrirang Swarge/People’s Archive of Rural India

Raju Desle secretary of AIKS claimed that 1,753 debt-ridden farmers have killed themselves in Maharashtra since June last year.

The Maharashtra government has sent a memorandum to the Centre seeking financial assistance of Rs. 2,400 crore for pink bollworm attacks on cotton crops and damage to crops caused by hailstorms and unseasonal rain, Agriculture Minister Pandurang Fundkar told Press Trust of India.

He said that the Centre is yet to release these funds.

Shrirang Swarge/People’s Archive of Rural India

Most of the farmers are from the Adivasi community and are joined by farmers from Marathwada, Raigad, Vidarbha and other districts. The number is likely to multiply by the time they reach Mumbai.

Don't Miss 65.2 K SHARES 9.6 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.4 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES
