	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/sports/5-things-about-the-cricket-culture-in-different-countries-that-would-surprise-you-336193.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
5 Things About The Cricket Culture In Different Countries That Would Surprise You
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
PARTNER

Cricket is not just a sport anymore, it has grown into a global phenomenon. Being one of the most popular sports, it not only appeals to the masses but also bring them together in a spectacular way. The way each country's cricket team approaches the game depends a lot on the culture of their nation. To give you a gist of it, let's take you through the different ways different teams play.

1. Setting up an unique strategy.

ICC

The mind game sets in even before you swing the bat across the field. Therefore, having a strategy which only one's team can understand is important.Every country follows a strategy that's unique and specific to their team. Eg. In the Pakistani team, they are conventional yet unconventional and follow a hybrid style of playing. This makes it really unpredictable for the opponent to follow.

2. Relationship between players within the team.

Kanigas

After months of practice sessions and numerous world-tours spent together, the players are bound to develop a bond which is beyond just professional commitments. And in fact, this is one of the cementing factors that really defines them as a team. More often, it can make them or break them. Eg. The South African team, they are an extremely close-knit like family. The captain wants them so dearly to succeed that sometimes when he and his senior players fail, even the other players get emotionally impacted and it reflects on their performance too.

3. Crowd support.

telegraph.co.uk

Well, being a crazily-loved game by the masses, the number of spectators is always overflowing in the stadium. While they carry banners, paint their faces and keep hooting to support their own teams, the level of audience aggression can vary in different countries. For eg. In Australia, Geraint Jones was sharing in an interview about the England team, which had a tough time surviving the Australian team and their audience during the Ashes tour. You’d really think twice before stepping inside an Australian cricket stadium after reading his blog here. But surely for the Australia cricket team, the fan support is quite enthralling.

4. The value that cricket holds in the heart of the nation.

BCCL

Ultimately, it all depends on how the entire country perceives the sport and how much of heart and soul is put into developing the game. Eg.West Indies was known as a cricketing nation years back, where every West Indian understood cricket as an instrument that gave them a particular purpose. Cricket allowed the West Indians to measure themselves in terms of ability, competence and skill against the other nations of the world. And when they fell down and found it difficult to even win small test series, people from across the country literally wept and wrote letters, articles and writings showing their concern.

5. The extra-cricketing affair.

Twitter

Being not just limited to the field, cricket is taken off-field also for so many purposes depending on how the country sees their cricketers and the sport itself. Eg. In India, it is literally home to cricket. From showcasing cricketers on ads and films, releasing cricket literature to various commercial and non-commercial interactions; this sport is in fact seen more than just culture, it is seen as a civilization. And our cricketers sure love to have fun even outside the field. We can't help but love it!

If you are a cricket-lover, let us know in the comments below about how cricket as a culture has impacted you.
