	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/world/american-man-who-brutally-killed-indian-techie-srinivas-in-kansas-in-a-hate-crime-pleads-guilty-could-face-50-years-in-jail-341002.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
American Man Who Brutally Killed Indian Techie Srinivas In Kansas In A Hate Crime Pleads Guilty, Could Face 50 Years In Jail
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
Man Who Brutally Killed Indian Techie Srinivas In Kansas In A Hate Crime Pleads Guilty, Could Face 50 Years In Jail

Man Who Brutally Killed Indian Techie Srinivas In Kansas In A Hate Crime Pleads Guilty, Could Face 50 Years In Jail

Adam Purinton a US national charged with the murder of Srinivas Kuchibhotla, an Indian techie working in Kansas has pleaded guilty in the case.

He also pleaded guilty of injuring two others including an Indian national in the shooting incident in February 2017 in a Kansas bar.

AP/ File

In November the 52-year-old had pleaded not guilty in the case.

Despite his guilty plea, he still faces federal hate crime charges and could face up to 50 years in jail. Federal prosecutors have not determined whether to seek the death penalty. The sentencing is scheduled for May 4.

32-year-old Kuchibhotla, who was from Andhra and worked with a US tech company was with his two friends having a drink at a bar when Purinton allegedly made derogatory comments on them and was asked to leave the. He returned a short time later with a gun and shot at the trio. Kuchibhotla who was fatally injured died in the hospital, while the two others survived with minor injuries.

Purinton is said to have inquired about the legal status of Kuchibhotla and his friend, implying that they were illegal immigrants and shouted "Get out of my country!" before firing at two men.

Purinton who fled the scene immediately after the firing had told a bartender that he had shot two "Iranians" and was looking for a place to hide.

The murder which came just two months after Donald Trump assumed office as President of the US had raked up fears of the Indian community becoming the target of racially motivated attacks.

AFP/ File

Earlier this year Donald Trump, for his first State of The Union Address, had invited Sunayana Dumala the widow of Kuchibhotla who had since the incident moved back to India.

Don't Miss 65.2 K SHARES 8.9 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.4 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES 13.3 K SHARES 11.3 K SHARES
