	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/after-tej-bahadur-another-bsf-jawan-allege-poor-quality-of-food-what-s-wrong-with-the-system-341038.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Another BFS Jawan Says Poor Quality Food Is Being Served To Soldiers, Clip Goes Viral
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
It has been well over a year since the on-duty BSJ Jawan Tej Bahadur Yadav, posted a video about the poor quality of food served to the soldiers serving in the border areas. He kicked up a storm on social media and elsewhere by revealing the details about the alleged ill-treatment of Jawans. The BSF and the military establishment rubbished Yadav's claims after internal inquiries and he was subsequently terminated from service.

Following the controversy, the BSF had promised to improve the quality of the food and warned its personnel against making their grievances public.

Now, a new video has emerged making the same allegations and questioning if any effort has been taken to improve the food quality at all?

The video shows a BSF soldier posted in Tekanpur BSF Camp near Gwalior venting his frustration on the food he and his colleagues were getting at the camp.

The personnel in the video identifies himself as a native of Jalgaon district in Maharashtra. He can be heard saying he has been in the BSF for 28 years.

He appears to be addressing his colleagues about the poor quality of the food. It was not clear whether he was aware of being filmed or not.

Speaking about the development, Tej Bahadur, who last year made the first such complaint said the soldier did not want to identify himself due to the fear of facing punitive actions like what he was subjected to.

BCCL

Tej Bahadur who is now fighting a court battle to get him reinstated said after he raised the issue of the poor food quality, there has been a lot of improvement in most of the places. He, however, admitted that it is a concern in some areas including in the Northeast, where the government has recently reduced the food allowances.

Don't Miss 13.3 K SHARES 65.2 K SHARES 8.9 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.4 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES 11.3 K SHARES
