	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/sports/bengaluru-woman-techie-allegedly-beaten-up-by-mob-for-reporting-illegal-cow-slaughter-331772.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Bengaluru Woman Techie Allegedly Beaten Up By Mob For Reporting Illegal Cow Slaughter, 7 Arrested
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
A software engineer from Bengaluru has claimed that she was attacked and her vehicle was vandalised when she tried to report an incident of illegal cow slaughter to the police. Police have so far detained seven people. However, Karnataka CM said that he will look into the matter as nobody can take the law into their hands.

Indiatimes

The techies, Nandini has lodged a complaint with the police stating that she was assaulted by over 150 people. According to her complaint, the assault happened after she reported a case of alleged illegal cow slaughter taking place in Talaghattapura area located on the outskirts of Bengaluru.

Indiatimes

Nandini said she along with a friend, was travelling in her Innova when they noticed around 14 cows being transported to a slaughterhouse. Nandini claimed that the area housed many illegal slaughterhouses.

She then rushed to the police station to file a complaint. A 15 member police team was sent to the spot and Nandini stated she went along with the police to help locate the slaughterhouse.

However, when Nandini reached the spot, a mob of around 100 people attacked her and threw rocks at her car. The windshield of the car was allegedly smashed in the attack.

Indiatimes

Nandini has claimed that it was a “trap” that was set up for her by the cattle mafia. Nandini went on to state that the mob raised pro-Pakistan slogans.

"I saw a mob gathered there, and assumed that there would be police too, as promised. However, there was nobody, and I felt like I was trapped. The mob started hurling concrete blocks, boulders and glass bottles from all directions, screaming pro-Pakistan slogans. It was the worst experience of my life," she added.

Don't Miss 684 SHARES 988 SHARES 65.3 K SHARES 9.6 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.7 K SHARES 7.6 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES
