	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/sports/home-of-formula-1-night-racing-is-back-featuring-calvin-harris-ariana-grande-the-chainsmokers-onerepublic-and-more-327969.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Home Of Formula 1® Night Racing Is Back Featuring Calvin Harris, Ariana Grande, The Chainsmokers, OneRepublic, And More!
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
PARTNER

When we talk about FORMULA 1® racing, there is an extra shot of adrenaline rush that we all feel, especially while imagining the swift turns, sparks and screeches on the race track. But when it comes to the FORMULA 1® calendar, it is the 2017 FORMULA 1® SINGAPORE AIRLINES SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX night race which is the “crown jewel”. Literally! Not just because of its extra-ordinary “night race” concept, but also since it is set-up against the backdrop of Singapore's lit-up skyline.

2017 marks the 10th anniversary of the FORMULA 1® SINGAPORE AIRLINES SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX at the Marina Bay Street Circuit, and it is bound to be bigger and more grand. Here are some awesome things to experience at the 2017 FORMULA 1® SINGAPORE AIRLINES SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX (you can’t afford to miss this one!)

Singapore GP

A dazzling line up of world-renowned international music artists in one single arena!

Singapore GP

If you are a hard-core music lover apart from being a race-head, then listen up. This year’s headliners are Calvin Harris, Ariana Grande, The Chainsmokers, OneRepublic, Duran Duran, Seal, George The Poet and Lianne La Havas. Set at various stages within the circuit park, dancing the night away through these concerts is definitely worth the ticket price, don’t you think so?

The bustling urban-jungle at its liveliest best during the day!

Singapore Tourism Board

With the evening itinerary occupied with festivities in the race circuit, you can set out early in the day to explore Asia’s buzzing urban jungle, learn about the local lifestyle, and check out Singapore’s must-see attractions. You can start the day by going on a hiking trail at Bukit Timah Nature Reserve or enjoy the fragrance of the flowers at Singapore's very own UNESCO World Heritage Site- the Singapore Botanic Gardens. Later in the day, go on a shopping spree at the island’s famous shopping areas from Orchard Road to Marina Bay. You can then visit Sentosa and its beaches for some relaxation, before you head over to the race circuit.

Food, glorious food!

Singapore Tourism Board

You don’t have to be a foodie to fall in love with the splendid platters available in every nook and corner of the city! And especially near the racing circuit, you can try everything ranging from sambal stingray to oh-luak (oyster egg omlette) at Makansutra Gluttons by the Bay! There are hawker stalls and even internationally-acclaimed restaurants to cater to all tastes! One thing guaranteed is, there is no dearth for food at all as Singapore is a food lover’s paradise.

Clubbing and partying with the racing A-listers!

The Podium Lounge

The city continues to roar even after the engines are turned off, with rooftop soirees to intimate gatherings and everything in between. With international DJs helming the decks, you’ll end up grooving to the beats all night. The top racers and music artists also come to these lounges like The Podium Lounge and Amber Lounge which are near the racing circuits. So you totally know who you could be partying with!

Singapore GP

Now if you think that Singapore is just too expensive to handle this all this excitement, you are in for a surprise. Just for a S$278 (INR 13k) ticket, you can watch 3 nights of concerts and experience the atmosphere of the night race. Super cool isn’t it? The race dates are 15, 16 and 17th September, so if you are planning a trip to Singapore, there isn’t a better time to book than this exhilarating weekend. Book your 2017 FORMULA 1® SINGAPORE AIRLINES SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX tickets here.
