	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/world/someone-put-a-very-long-mat-on-the-beach-and-for-a-very-good-reason-340623.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Someone Put A Very Long Mat On The Beach, And For A Very Good Reason
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
Someone Put A Very Long Mat On The Beach, And For A Very Good Reason

Someone Put A Very Long Mat On The Beach, And For A Very Good Reason

Strolling along the beach is so much fun. It's a go-to place for many people. If one is happy, they go to the beach, if one is sad, they go to the beach. But out of the so many things that we love about it - the water, serenity, obscurity, vastness, we absolutely hate the sand that sticks to our feet.

A long blue pathway stretches from the walkway at the West end of Gulf Shores public beach across the sand bringing visitors in wheelchairs, trouble walking or just loaded down with beach gear, 200 feet closer to the Gulf of Mexico. https://t.co/JfEP2CwSaa — WKRG (@WKRG) March 1, 2018

This means that two priceless moments at the beach, and an hour-long cleaning of your feet and shoes. Also, not to forget the tiny pebbles that hurt like hell!

But some genius, kind person is now making beach visits so much better. A long blue pathway has been put at the West end of the Gulf Shores.

WKRG

It was put there to encourage wheelchair-bound people to come spend some time. But, many people are also using it to walk closer towards the shore without getting sand in every cell of their skin!

This mat is now being called as the 'access mat' and is made by a company in New Jersey. The five feet wide mat made of plastic is bringing people 200 feet closer to the Gulf of Mexico at the Alabama beach.

To keep it stable, as of now it's being held with 12-inch stakes.

Looking at its success, the authorities are planning to put these mats across every beach in the city, so as to have more and more wheelchair-bound people at the beach. It's quite generous, to be honest, for them to think of something like this, which is not a priority.
