	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/there-s-a-sudden-surge-in-hiv-infected-inmates-in-up-jails-due-to-unsafe-sex-and-drug-abuse-341171.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
There's A Sudden Surge In HIV-Infected Inmates In UP Jails Due To Unsafe Sex And Drug Abuse
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
There's A Sudden Surge In HIV-Infected Inmates In UP Jails Due To Unsafe Sex And Drug Abuse

There's A Sudden Surge In HIV-Infected Inmates In UP Jails Due To Unsafe Sex And Drug Abuse

The state of affairs came to light during a health check-up camp in Ghaziabad. Twenty-seven inmates were found positive in Dasna Jail and 10 inmates were tested positive at a jail in Meerut.

The jail administration has separated these HIV positive prisoners from others for their treatment within the jail premises.

The National Human Right Commission (NHRC) has taken cognizance of media reports on the unfortunate set of circumstances. NHRC had issued a notice to the Yogi Adityanath Government two days ago seeking a detailed report within six weeks on steps taken to curb the deadly disease spreading to other inmates and treatment of affected inmates.

The NHRC has sought to draw the attention of state government on the plight and medical negligence in Uttar Pradesh jails if media reports are found to be correct.

The NHRC has also directed the State Government to probe how so many prisoners got affected by the HIV virus in jails.

Representational Image

Frightened by the HIV positive cases in Gorakhpur jail, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath government had directed the health department to conduct the blood test on prisoners lodged in different jails across the state to segregate prisoners affected by HIV.

Most of those who tested positive for HIV in Gorakhpur, Meerut and Ghaziabad jails are under-trials facing charges of drug smuggling and pedaling.

An appalling incident came to light in February from Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao district where a local quack infected 58 people with HIV over the last year by using the same syringe to administer injections.

A fee of Rs 10 and free medicines were sales pitch the quack used for over a decade in the Bangarmau town to attract patients from rural areas.

Reportedly, during the tests conducted by the Uttar Pradesh State AIDS Control Society in 70 jails of the State, 265 prisoners had tested HIV positive till December last year. These cases have been reported from the jails in Bareilly, Allahabad, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Faizabad, Agra, Meerut, Varanasi and Kanpur.”

Representational Image

Don't Miss 134 SHARES 173 SHARES 65.3 K SHARES 9.6 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.7 K SHARES 7.6 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES

“Seemingly, there is an urgent need to conduct a probe into the matter to determine the cause of the spread of HIV infection among prisoners. It is also necessary to take immediate preventive measures so that other prisoners do not fall prey to the infection and those, who are suffering are provided necessary medical treatment,” the NHRC said.

HIV emergency: Sodomy, homosexuality, unprotected sex and sharing of needles

Indian prisons are facing the HIV scare because of rampant drug abuse and unsafe sexual practices amongst prisoners.

The National AIDS Control Organisation’s (NACO) recently launched prisons intervention programme has found that a large number of prison inmates contract HIV because of unsafe sex and the sharing of needles within prisons.

Preliminary data from the programme shows that 2.5% of more than 35,000 prisoners tested are HIV positive.

The majority of HIV positive cases were from Mizoram, with 60 of 455 inmates testing positive – an infection rate of 13%.

NACO has decided to focus the HIV intervention on prisons in areas with high HIV prevalence and large numbers of intravenous drug users, such as Punjab and North Eastern states.

A study at Arthur Road jail in 2006 showed that men often have unprotected sex with other men, which might me consensual or coercive.

Representational Image

The larger crisis that looms is that this problem may take a mammoth shape as prisons in India are rarely monitored. The prisoners are not under any HIV prevention programme and once released from jail, they often go on to pass the disease to their spouses.

As drugs pass freely into country’s jails, including the most guarded and high profile Tihar jail, many prisoners share the same needle to do drugs. Authorities are now worried as HIV is spreading due to infected needles. To add to it, sodomy and homosexuality only make prisoners more vulnerable.

In the past, jail authorities have tried to introduce condom distribution but the move was resented by some inmates, accusing authorities of promoting sex inside jails.

While this remains a Catch 22 situation for jail authorities, the issue cannot be ignored and will only take a monstrous shape if sidelined.
