	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.indiatimes.com/news/sports/this-kashmiri-security-guard-gets-picked-by-kings-xi-punjab-for-rs-20-lakh-in-ipl-2018_-338640.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
This Kashmiri Security Guard Gets Picked By Kings XI Punjab For Rs 20 Lakh In IPL 2018
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
It does not take much time for life to change. This statement has comes true in Manzoor Ahmad Dar's life. He once had to quit studies to support his family and had to take up the job of a security guard in Kashmir but now his life has changed. Dar is the only cricketer from Jammu and Kashmir to make it to the Indian Premier League this year.

The Kings XI Punjab has bought him for Rs 20 lakh. “Today is the biggest day of my life,” the 24-year-old Dar told The Indian Express after he was bought by the Mohali-based franchise.

“It is difficult to translate my happiness in words,” he added. Parvez Rasool and Umar Nazir who were parts of RCB last year left unsold.

IE

Dar who is known as 'Pandav' for his great physique, the 6 feet 2 inch lad did his debut in Vijay Hazare trophy last year. The son of a labourer, Dar is a resident of Sugarpora Ganastan, a village in Sumbal town in north part of the valley has become an inspiration.

“Only I know how much I have struggled to get into the state (cricket) team,” he said. “All my life, I have worked hard and today my hard work has come to fruition.”

Dar who started playing at 10 became famous with names like 'sixer man' as hitting sixes in local matches was his forte. But being the eldest among the siblings, Dar had to resort to work as security guard at a showroom in Srinagar. He would guard the showroom at night whereas work to make it big in game during day.

“I was first getting just Rs 2,800 per month. It was then increased to 3000 rupees,” he said. “What is important for me is not the money that IPL would fetch me. The important thing is that it is the fruit of my struggle.”

Don't Miss 65.3 K SHARES 9.6 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 9.7 K SHARES 7.6 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES
