	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/article/arcticbath-floating-hotel/index.html
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Inside Sweden's new floating hotel
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
(CNN) — A good vacation is an escape from the everyday and this upcoming resort in the Swedish Lapland, couldn't be further from normal life -- it's literally floating on a river in the middle of nowhere.

ArcticBath is a new hotel adrift on the Lule River in the Scandinavian north -- a glacial haven of snow-tipped forests, world-class fishing, amazing wildlife and the Northern Lights.

The resort is from the team behind the region's acclaimed Treehotel -- the quirky brainchild of owners Britta and Kent Lindvall, situated amongst the forest canopy.

ArcticBath will offer a similar mix of luxury and nature -- inspired by the wild, stunning Swedish surroundings.

Homegrown ethos

ArcticBath offers luxurious spa and sauna experiences. Courtesy Johan Kauppi

The unusual design of ArcticBath has a homegrown history.

"You don't have to copy things made elsewhere, it's not interesting," says ArcticBath articitect Bertil Harström -- who worked on the project alongside Johan Kauppi. "I think the interesting things come from your own history and your background."

Bertil Harström tells CNN Travel that the zany design is inspired by Swedish log-shipping traditions.

ArcticBath is also a great spot to watch the Northern Lights. Courtesy Johan Kauppi

Related content Swedish Lapland: An Arctic region returning to the wild

Until the mid-20th century, logs were transporting along Swedish waterways. En route, the timber would often get stuck on the rapids and form clusters of floating logs.

The architect recalled this image from his childhood -- and it became his main inspiration for the new design.

"It was a symbol for that era," Harström says. "So I chose to build this idea around the connection to the forest in the north."

The resulting circular structure is a striking combination of man-made and natural influences.

"I don't call myself a sophisticated intellectual architect designer, I work with more conceptual structures," says Harström.

Related content 11 best hotels in the middle of nowhere

Internal and external

















1 / 9 Wild at heart: Ringed by the Arctic Circle and bordered by Norway, Finland and the Baltic Sea, Swedish Lapland extends across the top quarter of Sweden. Courtesy Daniel J. Allen

The resort is home to six, 25-square-meter hotel rooms alongside saunas, a cold plunge pool, spa treatment rooms, a restaurant and bar and the central open-air bath.

Visitors will access the resort from a wooden walkway.

"You can say that the building is rather introvert, the focus is on the inside," says Harström. "So if you see it from a distance, you will have some problems to guess what is inside."

During winter, the resort will be frozen into the ice. During the summer it'll be floating in the river.

The center of the bath will offer spectacular panoramas of the Swedish night sky above.

"It's not a traditional façade in architecture," says Harström, who also worked on one of the treehouses for the nearby TreeHotel. "I think TreeHotel prepared the world for ArcticBath as the next project."

Related content The world's most spectacular floating hotels

Local community

The hotel will be open year-round. Courtesy Johan Kauppi

Harström says locals in the nearby village of Harads have been very encouraging about the project, especially after the success of TreeHotel:

"They are confident now [...] that it will be something good for society," says Harström.

The designers and owners are also conscious of protecting the environment -- as well as providing an excellent tourist experience. Harström says their ambitions are supported by the local government.

Locals have been supportive of the project. Courtesy Johan Kauppi

"They have been positive, and now we have all the papers that we need for starting up the building process," explains Harström.
