	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.wsj.com/articles/jobs-report-should-keep-fed-on-path-of-gradual-rate-increases-1520609825
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Jobs Report Should Keep Fed on Path of Gradual Rate Increases
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates at a policy meeting this month.

The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates at a policy meeting this month. Photo: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg News

The February employment report keeps the Federal Reserve on track to gradually raise interest rates and, more importantly, it suggests officials don’t have to worry right now that the economy is overheating even though unemployment remains historically low.

Fed officials are looking for signs they don’t need to ratchet up their pace of rate increases in part because there could be more slack in the labor market—or room for it to tighten more without fueling excessive inflation.

The jobs report gives such a sign. It shows employers added 313,000 jobs in February without reducing the unemployment rate, which has held at 4.1% for several months.

The report suggests a steadily growing economy is drawing more Americans from the sidelines of the labor force back into jobs.

“It seems increasingly plausible that the economy is still well short of full employment,” said Andrew Levin, a Dartmouth College economics professor and former Fed adviser.

That would allow the Fed to continue with its gradual pace of rate increases. Officials in December penciled in three quarter-percentage-point moves for 2018 and since then, several of them have raised the possibility of four.

Because unemployment has fallen below the level Fed officials expect is sustainable over the long run, they are now looking at other measures to see if the labor market has more slack.

The employment report shows the big January jump in hourly wages wasn’t necessarily the beginning of a new trend. Wages rose 2.6% in February from a year earlier, down from the revised 2.8% gain in January.

The January figure, originally reported as a 2.9% increase, sent markets on a wild ride as investors began anticipating faster inflation and possibly more aggressive Fed rate increases.

“We don’t see any strong evidence yet of a decisive move up in wages,” Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said at a Senate committee hearing last week.

Fed officials held their benchmark short-term interest rate steady in January in a range between 1.25% and 1.5% and signaled greater confidence that inflation would rise to their 2% target. They are likely to raise it by a quarter point at their meeting in two weeks.

They said in December they expected unemployment to fall as low as 3.6% this year, but that was before Congress approved a big tax cut and boosted federal spending. Stronger demand could send the unemployment rate even lower.

All of this raises a question: How low will officials allow unemployment to fall before picking up the pace of rate increases?

Besides wages, officials are looking closely at the labor-force participation rate for workers between 25 and 54 years old. That figure—the share of people that age holding or actively looking for jobs—rose to 82.2% in February. This is up 0.4 percentage point from January, a clear sign of progress.

At the same time, this rate is still more than a point below where it was a decade ago, suggesting there may be more slack, a point Mr. Powell made last week.

Finally, while joblessness is near an 18-year low, a broader measure of underemployment—one that counts people actively seeking work, those who aren’t consistently looking and those who have part-time jobs but desire full-time work—remains higher, at 8.2% in February. This is above the low of 7.9% set during the 2001-07 expansion and the 6.8% low reached in 2000.

Officials don’t want unemployment to fall so low that wage and price pressures rise unsustainably, forcing them to jack up interest rates faster and risk a recession. Last year, officials didn’t have to worry as much about unemployment falling too low because inflation was falling below their 2% target.

This year is different. Prices are expected to rise on an annual basis as one-off price declines from last spring fall out of the year-over-year comparisons. In addition, the tax cuts and increased government spending, by boosting demand, could further push up inflation. Officials also expect a cheaper dollar and increased competition among employers for workers to push up wages and prices.

Even some of the most cautious Fed officials have signaled greater confidence in the central bank’s rate plans and concern over the unusual circumstances of low unemployment combined with more stimulative tax-and-spending policies.

“We do not have extensive experience with an economy at very low unemployment rates and cannot be sure how it might evolve,” Fed governor Lael Brainard said in a speech Tuesday in New York.

Today’s economy “is the mirror image of the environment we confronted a couple of years ago,” said Ms. Brainard. “In the earlier period, strong headwinds sapped the momentum of the recovery and weighed down the path of policy. Today, with headwinds shifting to tailwinds, the reverse could be true.”

Continued wage gains are good news, but without a pickup in productivity—which would restrain inflation pressures—they suggest the Fed is entering a more delicate policy stage.

When unemployment was high and inflation was low, the Fed’s rate path was obvious. Now that joblessness is very low, the potential trade-offs loom larger.

Write to Nick Timiraos at nick.timiraos@wsj.com
