	 	 	 	 LINK TO NEWS 
https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-administration-tells-states-to-stop-regulating-federal-student-loans-1520640480
	 	 	 	 HEADLINE 
Trump Administration Tells States to Stop Regulating Federal Student Loans
	 	 	 	 CONTENT 
The Education Department—led by Secretary Betsy DeVos—posted a notice on Friday saying the federal government holds the sole power to regulate companies that collect U.S. student-loan payments.

The Education Department—led by Secretary Betsy DeVos—posted a notice on Friday saying the federal government holds the sole power to regulate companies that collect U.S. student-loan payments. Photo: Joe Raedle/Getty Images

WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump’s administration moved Friday to stop states from regulating companies that collect U.S. student-loan payments, arguing that states were encroaching on the federal government’s role.

The action drew a strong rebuke from consumer-advocate groups and states, including several led by Republicans.

At issue are loan servicers, companies that the U.S. Education Department pays about a billion dollars each year to deal directly with the nearly 43 million people who owe federal-student loans.

Some federal lawmakers, mainly Democrats, and regulators in the Democratic administration of former President Barack Obama have said the companies are partly to blame for a surge in defaults on student loans during the past decade.

The Education Department posted a notice on Friday saying that, under its interpretation of federal law, the federal government holds the sole power to regulate these companies. It said recent efforts by states to impose new regulations, such as licensing requirements, threatened to drive up costs and create confusion among the loan servicers about which rules to follow.

“As states increasingly put forward legislation and regulations that are inconsistent with federal law, the Department of Education saw the need to make clear federal law takes precedence,” said Kathleen Smith, deputy chief operating officer at the department’s Federal Student Aid office.

The intent of the notice is to offer clarification of the department’s interpretation of the law. It appears to be a way to give loan-service firms legal cover to ignore state regulations. The notice increases the likelihood the dispute will end up in court.

The companies faced scrutiny during Mr. Obama’s administration for what consumer advocates viewed as poor customer service, including unexpected delays, lost paperwork and insufficient communication about borrowers’ repayment options.

From July 2011 through last August, the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau handled more than 50,700 borrower complaints about servicers of federal and private student loans, the agency said in October.

That included 12,900 complaints about federal services in the 12 months through August. These consumers identified a range of problems that involved payment processing, billing, customer service and borrower communications, the agency said.

As an example, the agency said borrowers complain that when seeking to use a pay stub instead of their tax return to prove their income, their application may sit under review for months at a time, inhibiting them from making progress repaying their loan.

In response, some states have begun considering and passing laws that require servicers to obtain state licenses and standardize how they communicate with borrowers. At least four states have passed such laws, and a fifth, Washington, passed last week a comprehensive student loan “bill of rights” that awaits the Democratic governor’s signature.

“If the service is so good and borrowers are protected so well by the federal government, why have there been so many complaints?” said Jennifer Wang, D.C. office director at the Institute for College Access and Success, a nonprofit. “It is not a surprise to us that states have felt the need to create minimum standards.”

In October, 22 state attorneys general, including Republicans from Colorado, Tennessee and Texas, sent a letter to Education Secretary Betsy DeVos urging her not to pre-empt the states’ activities.

Doing so would “defy the well-established role of states in protecting their residents from fraudulent and abusive practices, plainly exceed the scope of the department’s lawful administrative authority,” they wrote.

The loan industry, however, has lobbied for months for federal protection from the state laws, which they said have created a patchwork of policies that make it difficult to carry out the federal-loan program.

The servicers have “long believed that the federal student-loan programs…are national in scope and need to be administered uniformly throughout the 50 states,” said James Bergeron, president of the National Council of Higher Education Resources, which represents loan servicers.

Industry leaders also said many of the complaints are about factors beyond their control. Jack Remondi, the chief executive of Navient Corp., one of the largest federal-loan servicers, said the company analyzed complaints its customers filed to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in the year through September 2016.

“The vast majority of complaints—approximately 90%—relate to federal loan policies, disagreement with loan terms that were set at the time the loan was made, or other issues unrelated to servicing errors,” he wrote in a March 2017 post on Medium.

Mr. Trump’s administration has met with some of the country’s biggest finance and tech companies for ideas on how to improve loan servicing, as part of a broad overhaul of the student-loan program. The government’s current contracts with student-loan servicers expire in 2019.

Agency officials have said they plan to complete new contracts this year for companies to improve service, including designing a smartphone app, tracking down delinquent borrowers, processing data and analyzing repayment trends.

Write to Michelle Hackman at Michelle.Hackman@wsj.com and Josh Mitchell at joshua.mitchell@wsj.com
